source/handbook/support/knowledge-base/categories/support_workflows/dormant_username_policy.html.md, before:

---
layout: markdown_page
title: Dormant Username Policy
category: Support Workflows
---

### On this page
{:.no_toc}

- TOC
{:toc}

----

##### Overview
Apply this workflow when a customer has lodged a dormant a [dormant username](https://about.gitlab.com/handbook/support/#dormantusers) request.

##### Notes:
When applying any of the Macros ensure to replace the placeholder **“REQUESTEDUSERNAME”** with the username requested.
______________

##### Workflow

1. Search for the requested username in [GitLab.com admin](https://gitlab.com/admin/users), once found visit the users admin profile.
1. Apply the **“Account::Dormant Username::Internal Checklist”** Macro
1. Answer all questions in the **“Internal Checklist”** (Yes/No) ensuring to cross check the information found in the admin section. 
1. If all answers are **Yes** for the internal checklist follow: [Username is available](#username-is-available) 
1. if the username is not available follow: [Username is not available](#username-is-not-available)

##### Username is available 

1. Reply to the requester with the **Account::Dormant Username::First Response** Macro
1. Create a **new ZenDesk ticket** with the **username owner's email address (found in admin)**. 
1. Apply the **“Account::Dormant Username::Contact Username Owner”** Macro and mark the ticket as **Pending**. 
1. Make an internal comment providing a link to the ticket “requesting user's ticket”
1. Wait for **a response** or the ticket to be **automatically reopened** in 2 weeks. 


##### Username owner responded
If the username owners makes a response (don’t remove my username) follow these steps:

1. Apply the **“Account::Dormant Username::Cancel Request”** Macro to the **username owners response**.
1. Apply the **“Account::Dormant Username::Failed Username Request”** to the **username requesters ticket**. 


##### Username owner has not responded

If the contacted user makes no response (within a 2 week period) the ticket will be **automatically marked as open and an email sent to the assigned agent** 

If the username owners makes no response follow these steps:

1. Rename the username:
1. Navigate to the username in admin - https://gitlab.com/admin/users
1. Select “Edit” on the user's profile
1. Append “_idle” to the user’s username 
1. Save changes


1. Apply the **“Account::Dormant Username::Successful Username Request”** Macro to the **username requesters ticket** and mark the ticket as **Solved**. 
2. Mark the **username owners ticket** as **Solved**

##### Username is not available 

1. Apply **"Account::Dormant Username::Failed Username Request"** Macro and mark ticket as **Solved**

__________________

**Macros**

* [Account::Dormant Username::Failed Username Request](https://gitlab.zendesk.com/rules/94534768/edit)
* [Account::Dormant Username::Internal Checklist](https://gitlab.zendesk.com/rules/93505588/edit)
* [Account::Dormant Username::First Response](https://gitlab.zendesk.com/rules/94687707)
* [Account::Dormant Username::Contact Username Owner](https://gitlab.zendesk.com/rules/94531288/edit)
* [Account::Dormant Username::Cancel Request](https://gitlab.zendesk.com/rules/94534828/edit)

**Automations**

* [Dormant Username Check](https://gitlab.zendesk.com/rules/94693587/edit)

Commit message:

Fix dormant user support workflow so requested username owner is contacted twice in two weeks.

source/handbook/support/knowledge-base/categories/support_workflows/dormant_username_policy.html.md, after:

---
layout: markdown_page
title: Dormant Username Policy
category: Support Workflows
---

### On this page
{:.no_toc}

- TOC
{:toc}

----

##### Overview
Apply this workflow when a customer has lodged a dormant a [dormant username](https://about.gitlab.com/handbook/support/#dormantusers) request.

##### Notes:
When applying any of the Macros ensure to replace the placeholder **“REQUESTEDUSERNAME”** with the username requested.
______________

##### Workflow

1. Search for the requested username in [GitLab.com admin](https://gitlab.com/admin/users), once found visit the users admin profile.
1. Apply the **“Account::Dormant Username::Internal Checklist”** Macro
1. Answer all questions in the **“Internal Checklist”** (Yes/No) ensuring to cross check the information found in the admin section. 
1. If all answers are **Yes** for the internal checklist follow: [Username is available](#username-is-available) 
1. if the username is not available follow: [Username is not available](#username-is-not-available)

##### Username is available 

1. Reply to the requester with the **Account::Dormant Username::First Response** Macro
1. Create a **new ZenDesk ticket** with the **username owner's email address (found in admin)**. 
1. Apply the **“Account::Dormant Username::Contact Username Owner”** Macro and mark the ticket as **Pending**. 
1. Make an internal comment providing a link to the ticket “requesting user's ticket”
1. Wait for **a response** or the ticket to be **automatically reopened** in a week.
1. Apply the **“Account::Dormant Username::Contact Username Owner”** Macro a second time and mark the ticket as **Pending**.
1. Wait for **a response** or the ticket to be **automatically reopened** in a week.


##### Username owner responded
If the username owners makes a response (don’t remove my username) follow these steps:

1. Apply the **“Account::Dormant Username::Cancel Request”** Macro to the **username owners response**.
1. Apply the **“Account::Dormant Username::Failed Username Request”** to the **username requesters ticket**. 


##### Username owner has not responded

If the contacted user makes no response (within a 2 week period) the ticket will be **automatically marked as open and an email sent to the assigned agent** 

If the username owners makes no response follow these steps:

1. Rename the username:
1. Navigate to the username in admin - https://gitlab.com/admin/users
1. Select “Edit” on the user's profile
1. Append “_idle” to the user’s username 
1. Save changes


1. Apply the **“Account::Dormant Username::Successful Username Request”** Macro to the **username requesters ticket** and mark the ticket as **Solved**. 
2. Mark the **username owners ticket** as **Solved**

##### Username is not available 

1. Apply **"Account::Dormant Username::Failed Username Request"** Macro and mark ticket as **Solved**

__________________

**Macros**

* [Account::Dormant Username::Failed Username Request](https://gitlab.zendesk.com/rules/94534768/edit)
* [Account::Dormant Username::Internal Checklist](https://gitlab.zendesk.com/rules/93505588/edit)
* [Account::Dormant Username::First Response](https://gitlab.zendesk.com/rules/94687707)
* [Account::Dormant Username::Contact Username Owner](https://gitlab.zendesk.com/rules/94531288/edit)
* [Account::Dormant Username::Cancel Request](https://gitlab.zendesk.com/rules/94534828/edit)

**Automations**

* [Dormant Username Check](https://gitlab.zendesk.com/rules/94693587/edit)
