source/handbook/marketing/blog/community-writers/index.html.markdown, before:

---
layout: markdown_page
title: "Community Writers Program"
description: "Start today and earn up to $200 an article."
twitter_image: /images/handbook/marketing/community-writers-twitter-illustration.png
---

<br>

![Write for GitLab](/images/handbook/marketing/community-writers-twitter-illustration.png)

{::options parse_block_html="true" /}

<div class="alert alert-purple center">
## <i class="fa fa-gitlab fa-fw" style="color:rgb(107,79,187); font-size:.85em" aria-hidden="true"></i> Get paid to write for GitLab <i class="fa fa-gitlab fa-fw" style="color:rgb(107,79,187); font-size:.85em" aria-hidden="true"></i>
{:.gitlab-orange .text-center #write-for-gitlab}
</div>

We want to publish you! **Earn up to $200 per article** writing for the [GitLab Blog].

Are you great at solving challenging problems or explaining complex ideas? Do you
have a specific area of expertise and want to share your knowledge? Help us expand
our range of tutorials and advice about creating, collaborating, and deploying with
Git and GitLab.  You don't have to be an experienced writer, we will work with you
to revise, refine, and publish your post to share with our community.

## How It Works

1. Choose a topic
2. Start writing
3. Get paid

All of GitLab's blog posts begin as an issue in the [GitLab blog post project][blog-project].
To become a community author:

- Select an issue from <https://gitlab.com/gitlab-com/blog-posts/issues> [labeled](#labels) with "[up-for-grabs]"
- Submit an the first two paragraphs of the article or link to a relevant article you've written before.
- Leave a comment "@marcia I would like to write this post, and I accept the terms on the [Community Writers Program](#)"

If you don't see a topic that interests you, you can propose a new topic by
creating a new issue and following the last two instructions above. Once approved Marcia will leave a comment "@username, you got it!" and you can start writing!

## Get Paid

- In-depth tutorials or opinion pieces of 750+ words: **[USD 200.00]**
- Short tutorials of 500-750 words: **[USD 100.00]**
- [Top-priority][]: **USD 200.00**

<i class="fa fa-exclamation-triangle" aria-hidden="true" style="color: rgb(49, 112, 143);"></i>&nbsp;
Issues labeled **TOP PRIORITY**, will be compensated at **USD 200** regardless of length.
{:.alert .alert-info .text-center #top-priority}

When your post gets published, send us an invoice. GitLab will pay you in
American Dollars (USD) from a bank account in the USA, via wired transfer
to your bank account.

## Learn More

- [Publishing Process for Community Writers][publishing-process]
- [Blog Style Guidelines][blog-style]
- [Writing Method]
- [Markdown Guide]

<!-- identifiers -->

[avail-posts]: https://gitlab.com/gitlab-com/blog-posts/issues?scope=all&state=opened&utf8=%E2%9C%93&label_name%5B%5D=Community+Posts&label_name%5B%5D=up-for-grabs
[blog-project]: https://gitlab.com/gitlab-com/blog-posts
[blog-style]: /handbook/marketing/blog/#styles-guidelines
[CI/CD/CD]: /2016/08/05/continuous-integration-delivery-and-deployment-with-gitlab/
[ConvDev]: /2016/09/13/gitlab-master-plan/#convdev
[Markdown Guide]: /handbook/marketing/developer-relations/technical-writing/markdown-guide/
[publishing-process]: /handbook/marketing/blog/#publishing-process-for-community-writers
[gitlab blog]: /blog/
[Pages group]: https://gitlab.com/groups/pages
[Writing Method]: /handbook/marketing/developer-relations/technical-writing/#writing-method
[topics-issues]: https://gitlab.com/gitlab-com/blog-posts/issues/

<!-- labels -->

[Community Posts]: https://gitlab.com/gitlab-com/blog-posts/issues?label_name%5B%5D=Community+Posts
[up-for-grabs]: https://gitlab.com/gitlab-com/blog-posts/issues?label_name%5B%5D=up-for-grabs
[USD 100.00]: https://gitlab.com/gitlab-com/blog-posts/issues?label_name%5B%5D=%24+100
[USD 200.00]: https://gitlab.com/gitlab-com/blog-posts/issues?label_name%5B%5D=%24200
[TOP-PRIORITY]: https://gitlab.com/gitlab-com/blog-posts/issues?label_name%5B%5D=TOP+PRIORITY

<style>
.center {
  text-align: center;
  display: block;
  margin-right: auto;
  margin-left: auto;
}
.alert-purple {
  color: rgb(107,79,187);
  background-color: #fff;
  border-color: rgba(107,79,187,.5);
}
.alert-purple h2 {
      margin-top: 15px;
}
</style>

Commit message:

add a brief section with necessary info

source/handbook/marketing/blog/community-writers/index.html.markdown, after:

---
layout: markdown_page
title: "Community Writers Program"
description: "Start today and earn up to $200 an article."
twitter_image: /images/handbook/marketing/community-writers-twitter-illustration.png
---

<br>

![Write for GitLab](/images/handbook/marketing/community-writers-twitter-illustration.png)

{::options parse_block_html="true" /}

<div class="alert alert-purple center">
## <i class="fa fa-gitlab fa-fw" style="color:rgb(107,79,187); font-size:.85em" aria-hidden="true"></i> Get paid to write for GitLab <i class="fa fa-gitlab fa-fw" style="color:rgb(107,79,187); font-size:.85em" aria-hidden="true"></i>
{:.gitlab-orange .text-center #write-for-gitlab}
</div>

We want to publish you! **Earn up to $200 per article** writing for the [GitLab Blog].

Are you great at solving challenging problems or explaining complex ideas? Do you
have a specific area of expertise and want to share your knowledge? Help us expand
our range of tutorials and advice about creating, collaborating, and deploying with
Git and GitLab.  You don't have to be an experienced writer, we will work with you
to revise, refine, and publish your post to share with our community.

## How It Works

1. Choose a topic
2. Start writing
3. Get paid

All of GitLab's blog posts begin as an issue in the [GitLab blog post project][blog-project].
To become a community author:

- Select an issue from <https://gitlab.com/gitlab-com/blog-posts/issues> [labeled](#labels) with "[up-for-grabs]"
- Submit an the first two paragraphs of the article or link to a relevant article you've written before.
- Leave a comment "@marcia I would like to write this post, and I accept the terms on the [Community Writers Program](#)"

If you don't see a topic that interests you, you can propose a new topic by
creating a new issue and following the last two instructions above. Once approved Marcia will leave a comment "@username, you got it!" and you can start writing!

## Get Paid

- In-depth tutorials or opinion pieces of 750+ words: **[USD 200.00]**
- Short tutorials of 500-750 words: **[USD 100.00]**
- [Top-priority][]: **USD 200.00**

<i class="fa fa-exclamation-triangle" aria-hidden="true" style="color: rgb(49, 112, 143);"></i>&nbsp;
Issues labeled **TOP PRIORITY**, will be compensated at **USD 200** regardless of length.
{:.alert .alert-info .text-center #top-priority}

When your post gets published, send us an invoice. GitLab will pay you in
American Dollars (USD) from a bank account in the USA, via wired transfer
to your bank account.

## Notes

- If you want to write about your own product (or the product you represent), and how it integrates with GitLab, we'll be happy to have you as a [Guest Writer](../#guest-posts). The Community Writers Program won't apply for these cases.
- You are encouraged to write more than one post. If you succeed on the first process, we'll be glad to have you writing for us regularly. The process for writing more than one post is exactly the same for writing the first one. Please, pick up an issue at a time.
- Your post must be original, comprehensible, technical, and unprecedented.

## Learn More

- [Publishing Process for Community Writers][publishing-process]
- [Blog Style Guidelines][blog-style]
- [Writing Method]
- [Markdown Guide]

<!-- identifiers -->

[avail-posts]: https://gitlab.com/gitlab-com/blog-posts/issues?scope=all&state=opened&utf8=%E2%9C%93&label_name%5B%5D=Community+Posts&label_name%5B%5D=up-for-grabs
[blog-project]: https://gitlab.com/gitlab-com/blog-posts
[blog-style]: /handbook/marketing/blog/#styles-guidelines
[CI/CD/CD]: /2016/08/05/continuous-integration-delivery-and-deployment-with-gitlab/
[ConvDev]: /2016/09/13/gitlab-master-plan/#convdev
[Markdown Guide]: /handbook/marketing/developer-relations/technical-writing/markdown-guide/
[publishing-process]: /handbook/marketing/blog/#publishing-process-for-community-writers
[gitlab blog]: /blog/
[Pages group]: https://gitlab.com/groups/pages
[Writing Method]: /handbook/marketing/developer-relations/technical-writing/#writing-method
[topics-issues]: https://gitlab.com/gitlab-com/blog-posts/issues/

<!-- labels -->

[Community Posts]: https://gitlab.com/gitlab-com/blog-posts/issues?label_name%5B%5D=Community+Posts
[up-for-grabs]: https://gitlab.com/gitlab-com/blog-posts/issues?label_name%5B%5D=up-for-grabs
[USD 100.00]: https://gitlab.com/gitlab-com/blog-posts/issues?label_name%5B%5D=%24+100
[USD 200.00]: https://gitlab.com/gitlab-com/blog-posts/issues?label_name%5B%5D=%24200
[TOP-PRIORITY]: https://gitlab.com/gitlab-com/blog-posts/issues?label_name%5B%5D=TOP+PRIORITY

<style>
.center {
  text-align: center;
  display: block;
  margin-right: auto;
  margin-left: auto;
}
.alert-purple {
  color: rgb(107,79,187);
  background-color: #fff;
  border-color: rgba(107,79,187,.5);
}
.alert-purple h2 {
      margin-top: 15px;
}
</style>
