# www-gitlab-com

This is the source for the https://about.gitlab.com/ site.

## Local development

```sh
bundle install

bundle exec middleman
```

Once the Middleman server is running, you can visit `http://localhost:4567/` in
your browser to see a live, local preview of the site. Any changes to files in
the `source` directory will be detected automatically, and your browser will
even reload the page if necessary.

PDF files are not available in development mode. See below for more information.

See the [Middleman docs](https://middlemanapp.com/basics/development_cycle/) for
more information.

## Contributing

### Blog posts

Please read through the [Blog Handbook] before you begin.

A new blog post likely needs to be reviewed by others before being published, so
it's best to use our standard [feature branch workflow](http://docs.gitlab.com/ee/workflow/workflow.html)
and to open a Merge Request. If you're not yet comfortable using the Git command
line, you can [create a branch in the GitLab UI](http://docs.gitlab.com/ee/gitlab-basics/create-branch.html).

Blog posts go in [`source/posts/`](./source/posts/) and **must be named to
match the following format:** `yyyy-mm-dd-the-post-title.html.md`.

Because the formatting of the filename is important and specific, it's best to
generate the file for a new blog post interactively in your terminal by using
the `new_post` Rake task:

```shell
bundle exec rake new_post
```

When prompted, enter the blog post title, _without a date_, and press
<kbd>Enter</kbd>. A message will be printed to tell you the path to the new
file.

Open the file in your text editor of choice. The file will be empty except for a
few lines at the top, surrounded by a pair of three hyphens (`---`). These lines
are called [**Frontmatter**](https://middlemanapp.com/basics/frontmatter/).

The `title` attribute has already been filled out by the `new_post` Rake task.
Fill in the others as needed, or remove any that aren't applicable to your post
(not every post needs an `image`, for example).

If you need more fine-grained control over blog post ordering, or publication
time, add a `date` attribute to the frontmatter with a UTC-based time. For
example:

```yaml
---
title: "Example Blog Post"
date: 2017-04-01 15:45
---
```

If no `date` attribute is supplied, it will be inferred from the filename.

When adding timestamps to blog posts, **be warned:** setting it too far into the
future will cause the post to not be published until that time has passed.
Because builds are only triggered on new commits to `master`, you might set a
blog post to publish in a few hours, but it might not be published for days if
no one makes a new commit after that time has passed.

When in doubt, either don't give it a timestamp, or set it to a time that has
already passed.

Fill in the post's content using [Markdown][mkd-guide]. To preview your post locally
before publishing, see [**Local development**](#local-development) for
instructions.

[Blog Handbook]: https://about.gitlab.com/handbook/marketing/blog/
[mkd-guide]: https://about.gitlab.com/handbook/marketing/developer-relations/technical-writing/markdown-guide/

### Adding yourself to the team page

Edit [`data/team.yml`](./data/team.yml) and add a new entry for yourself (or
update the placeholder with your initials).

Images should be uploaded to [`source/images/team`](./source/images/team).

### Adding a pet to the team pets page

Edit [`data/pets.yml`](./data/pets.yml) and add a new entry.

Images should be uploaded to [`source/images/team/pets`](./source/images/team/pets).

### Updating the promotion link

This link appears at the top of the homepage and can be used to promote new
versions or upcoming events.

Edit [`data/promo.yml`](./data/promo.yml) to update the `link` and `text`
properties.

## Production build

Before building the static files, ensure you have a GitLab.com `PRIVATE_TOKEN`
environment variable setup. This is required so that Middleman can automatically
build the [direction page](https://about.gitlab.com/direction/).

```sh
bundle install

bundle exec rake build
# To also build PDFs:
bundle exec rake pdfs
```

The above command builds the static files and PDFs into the folder `public`.

## PDF files

This site includes some dynamically generated PDF files. For example,
`terms/print/gitlab_subscription_terms.pdf`. Each of these files is
derived from a corresponding 'printable' HTML file, such as
`terms/print/gitlab_subscription_terms.html`.

The PDF files are generated by [pandoc](http://pandoc.org/) using
[LaTeX/XeTeX](http://xetex.sourceforge.net/). Global PDF parameters such
as page margins are configured in pdf_template.tex.

### Install PDF dependencies

On OS X: run `brew install pandoc` and install [Basic
TeX](https://tug.org/mactex/morepackages.html).

### PDF development

You can tweak the 'printable HTML' files in Middleman's development
mode if you enter the correct URL in your browser (e.g.
`http://localhost:4567/terms/print/gitlab_subscription_terms.html`).
If you want to tweak pdf_template.tex run `rake build` once, and
`rake pdfs` as often as needed.

If you want to tweak the source HAML/Markdown/HTML and see the changes
in the final PDF you have to run `rake build pdfs` after each source
change.
