source/handbook/stock-options/index.html.md, before:

---
layout: markdown_page
title: "Stock Options"
---

----

## On this page
{:.no_toc}

- TOC
{:toc}

----

## Stock option grant levels

|Level|Number of Options|
|----|----:|
|(Senior) GitLab Fellow / Senior Director|15,000|
|Principal &  Distinguished Engineer / Director|10,000|
|(Senior) Staff Engineer / Senior Manager / Lead / Senior Account Executive|5,000|
|Senior Engineer / Manager / Account Executive|2,500|
|Intermediate Engineer / Junior Account Executive / other individual contributors|2,000|
|Junior Engineer / Business Development Representative|1,500|

We should update your stock option grant if you make a promotion.
If we didn't please contact people operations.

## About Your Ownership in GitLab

At GitLab we strongly believe in employee ownership in our Company.  We are in business
to create value for our shareholders and we want our employees to benefit from that shared success.

*In this [document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1tS-HBzy9kYH1tIGPV3ivilyrmWAGPeqowV45m1zkxuQ/edit) (only accessible to GitLab team members and applicants),
you can find some more details on the number of shares outstanding and the most recent valuations.*

This guide is meant to help you understand the piece of GitLab that you’re going to own!
Its goal is to be more straightforward than the full GitLab 2015 Equity Incentive Plan
(the “2015 Equity Plan”) and your stock option agreement which you are advised to read,
which both go into the full legal details.  Please note, however, that while we hope that
this guide is helpful to understanding the stock options and/or stock issued to you under
the 2015 Equity Plan, the governing terms and conditions are contained in the 2015 Equity
Plan and the related stock option agreement.  You should consult an employment attorney
and/or a tax advisor if you have any questions about navigating your stock options and
before you make important decisions.


## Stock Options

At GitLab, we give equity grants in the form of Incentive Stock Options (ISOs) and
Non-Qualified Stock Options (NSOs).  The difference in these two types of grants are,
generally, as follows:  ISOs are issued to US employees and carry a special form of
tax treatment recognized by the US Internal Revenue Service (IRS).  NSOs are granted
to contractors and non-US employees.  It’s called an option because you have the option
to buy GitLab stock later, subject to vesting terms, at the exercise price provided at
the time of grant.  Solely for the purposes of example, if you are granted stock options
with an exercise price of $1 per share of common stock today, and if GitLab grows later
so its common stock is worth $20 per share, you will still be able to buy the common
stock upon exercise of your option for $1 per share.


The reason we give stock options instead of straight stock is that you do not need to
spend any money to purchase the stock at the date of grant and can decide to purchase
the stock later as your options vest.  In addition, we do not provide straight stock grants
since this may subject you to immediate tax liabilities.  For example, if we granted you
$10,000 worth of GitLab stock today, you would have to pay taxes on the value of the stock
(potentially thousands of dollars) for this tax year.  If we give you options for $10,000
worth of stock, you generally don’t have to pay any taxes until you exercise them (more
on exercising later).  Again, this is a general summary of the tax treatment of your
options and you should consult a tax advisor prior to taking any actions in the future
which could trigger tax liabilities.


##  Vesting

Vesting means that you have to remain employed by, or are otherwise a service provider
to, GitLab for a certain period of time before you can fully own the stock purchased
under your stock option.  Instead of giving you the right to purchase and own all of
the common stock under your stock option on day one, you get to own the stock under
your stock option in increments over time. This process is called vesting and different
companies offer vesting schedules of different lengths.  At GitLab, our standard practice
is to issue options with a four year vesting schedule so you would own a quarter of your
stock after 12 months, half of your stock after two years, and all of it after 4 years.
Vesting happens on a monthly basis (so you vest 1/48 of your options each month), but
many vesting schedules include a cliff.  A cliff is a period at the beginning of the
vesting period where your equity does not vest monthly, but instead vests at the end of
the cliff period.  At most companies, including GitLab, this cliff period is generally
one year.  This means that if you leave your job either voluntarily or involuntarily
before you’ve worked for a whole year, none of your options will be vested.  At the end
of that year, you’ll vest the entire year’s worth (12 months) of equity all at once.
This helps keep the ownership of GitLab stock to folks who have worked at the company
for a meaningful amount of time.


## Dilution

This section deals with dilution which happens to all companies over time.  In general
companies issue  stock from time to time in the future.  For example, if company XYZ needs
to raise money from outside investors, it may need to create new stock to sell to those
investors. The effect of additional stock issuances by company XYZ is that while you
will own the same number of shares as you did before such issuance, there will be more
total shares of outstanding and, as a result, you will own a smaller percent of the
company -- this is called dilution.

Dilution does not necessarily mean reduced value.  For example when a company raises
money the value of stock will stay the because the company’s new valuation will be equal
to the old value of the company + the new capital raised. For example, if company XYZ
is worth $100m and it raises $25m, the company XYZ is now worth $125m. If you owned 5%
of $100m before, you now own 4% of $125m (20% of the company was sold, or, said differently,
diluted you by 20%). The 5% stake was worth $5m before the fundraise and the 4% stake is now worth $5m.

## Exercising Your Options

"Exercising your options" means buying the stock guaranteed by your options. You pay
the exercise price that was set when the options were first granted and you get stock
certificates back.
To give employees an opportunity to benefit from any existing tax incentives that may
be available (including under the US and the Dutch tax laws) we have made the stock
immediately exercisable. This means you can exercise your right to purchase the unvested
shares under your option to start your holding period.  However, the Company retains a
repurchase rights for the unvested shares if your employment or other services ends for
any reason.  An early exercise of unvested stock may have important tax implications and
you should consult your tax advisor before making such decision.

Also, while the company has the right to repurchase the unvested shares upon your
termination of services, the company is not obligated to do so.  Accordingly you could
lose some or all of the investment you made.  Because we are a young company there are
lots of risks so be aware and informed of the risks. Please read this [quora thread about most startups failing](https://www.quora.com/What-is-the-truth-behind-9-out-of-10-startups-fail) and this story of [people paying more in tax for their stock than they get back](http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/27/technology/when-a-unicorn-start-up-stumbles-its-employees-get-hurt.html).

## How to Exercise Your Stock Options<a name="how-to-exercise"></a>

Options are approved by the Board of Directors at regularly scheduled quarterly board meetings. After your grant has been approved by the Board you will receive a grant notice by email from eShares containing information relevant to the grant including the number of shares, exercise price, vesting period and other key terms.

There are two methods to exercise your shares:

1. Electronic (US Residents Only)
   - Log into your eShares account
   - Follow directions to enable ACH payments from your bank
   - After ACH has been enabled select exercise option grants and follow the prompts
2. Manual (Non ACH and Non US Residents)
   - Log into your eShares account
   - Click on "View" (right hand side of screen)
   - Click on "Attachments and Notes"
   - Click on "Form of Exercise Agreement"
   - Complete the form, sign and return as PDF to the CFO
   - Send payment in US dollars by wire transfer. You will be provided wire transfer info.

Note for US residents: whichever method you choose, be sure to download the 83-b election form provided by eShares and file with the IRS within 30 days of exercise. Send a copy of the election form to the CFO.

You will most likely want to include the following letter when sending in the 83-b election to the IRS.

>
><<Date Filed>>
>
>Department of the Treasury
>
><<Address provided from eShares 83-b instructions>>
>
>To whom it may concern:
>
>Please find enclosed two copies of the 83-b election in connection with my purchase of shares of GitLab Inc. common stock.  Please return one copy stamped as received to my attention in the enclosed self addressed stamped envelope.
>
>Yours Truly,
>
>//signature




## Option Expiration

If you leave the company, you will generally have 90 days to exercise your option
for any shares that are vested (as of the last day of service).  You may not purchase
unvested shares after your service has ended.  If you fail to exercise your option
within the 90 days after termination of service, your option will terminate and you
will not be able to purchase any shares under such option.  In addition, if not otherwise
expired through termination of your employment, your stock options expire 10 years after
they were issued.

## Exercise Prices and 409A Valuations
Generally, the exercise price for options granted under the 2015 Equity Plan will be
at the fair market value of such common stock at the date of grant.  In short, “fair
market value” is the price that a reasonable person could be expected to pay for the
common stock, but because GitLab is not “public” (listed on a large stock exchange),
the Board is responsible for determining the fair market value.  In order to assist
the Board, the company retains outside advisors to undertake something called a “409A
valuation”.  In general, the lower a valuation for the shares
the better for employees as there is more opportunity for gain.  Additionally, a lower
exercise price reduces the cash required to exercise the shares and establish a holding
period which can have tax advantages in some countries.  We describe those here
but as always check with your financial or tax advisor before taking any action.


## Taxes

Tax law is complex and you should consult a tax attorney or other tax advisor who is
familiar with startup stock options before making any decisions.

For US employees with Incentive Stock Options (ISOs), you aren’t taxed when you exercise
your options.  Tax will be due on the gain or profit you make when you sell the stock
(difference between the exercise price and the sale price).  Depending on your holding period,
the tax may be treated as ordinary income or capital gain.  Please note, however, that any
gain upon exercise of an ISO (difference between the exercise price and fair market value
at date of exercise), even if you do not sell the shares, may be counted as a "tax preference"
towards the Alternative Minimum Tax limit.  You should contact a tax advisor to see if
this would apply to you.

In addition to the benefits of a longer holding period the IRS does have an additional benefit for holders of Qualified Small Business Stock (QSBS for short).  Currently, GitLab meets the criteria for QSBS treatment however, again the Company is not in a position to offer tax or legal advice so check with your own tax and financial advisors.  We found [this article](https://blog.wealthfront.com/qualified-small-business-stock-2016/) helpful in describing the QSBS program in greater detail.


Generally, for Non-qualified Stock Options (NSOs), you are taxed on any gain upon exercise
of a NSO (difference between the exercise price and fair market value at date of exercise).
NSOs are treated much less favorably under tax law because they can be given to people who
don’t work at GitLab. This complicates the tax law and is beyond the current scope of this
document.

For our employees based in the Netherlands, the Dutch taxing authority has a similar concept in that only the difference between the exercise price and the fair market value is considered taxable. So if you exercise early there is no difference between the two and therefore no taxable gain. With respect to tax reporting, you report the difference between fair market value at exercise and the exercise price. So if there is no difference between the two, nothing needs to be reported. Once you have exercised options, then you will need to speak with your tax advisor about how to report them for the purposes of Dutch wealth tax. Again the Company is not in a position to offer tax or legal advice around early exercising or tax reporting, so check with your own tax and financial advisors.

Anyone is always welcome to ask our CFO any questions they have about their options,
 GitLab’s fundraising, or anything else related to equity at GitLab. However, everyone should
 also consult a lawyer before making important financial decisions, especially regarding
 their equity because there are complex legal and tax requirements that may apply.


## References

Our team member Drew Blessing [wrote about what he learned about stock options](http://blessing.io/startups/stock-options/2016/02/15/navigating-your-stock-options.html) after starting to research them because he received them when joining us. His article is greatly appreciated but GitLab Inc. does not endorse it, any advise is his.

Commit message:

Add exercise window post termination

source/handbook/stock-options/index.html.md, after:

---
layout: markdown_page
title: "Stock Options"
---

----

## On this page
{:.no_toc}

- TOC
{:toc}

----

## Stock option grant levels

|Level|Number of Options|
|----|----:|
|(Senior) GitLab Fellow / Senior Director|15,000|
|Principal &  Distinguished Engineer / Director|10,000|
|(Senior) Staff Engineer / Senior Manager / Lead / Senior Account Executive|5,000|
|Senior Engineer / Manager / Account Executive|2,500|
|Intermediate Engineer / Junior Account Executive / other individual contributors|2,000|
|Junior Engineer / Business Development Representative|1,500|

We should update your stock option grant if you make a promotion.
If we didn't please contact people operations.

## About Your Ownership in GitLab

At GitLab we strongly believe in employee ownership in our Company.  We are in business
to create value for our shareholders and we want our employees to benefit from that shared success.

*In this [document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1tS-HBzy9kYH1tIGPV3ivilyrmWAGPeqowV45m1zkxuQ/edit) (only accessible to GitLab team members and applicants),
you can find some more details on the number of shares outstanding and the most recent valuations.*

This guide is meant to help you understand the piece of GitLab that you’re going to own!
Its goal is to be more straightforward than the full GitLab 2015 Equity Incentive Plan
(the “2015 Equity Plan”) and your stock option agreement which you are advised to read,
which both go into the full legal details.  Please note, however, that while we hope that
this guide is helpful to understanding the stock options and/or stock issued to you under
the 2015 Equity Plan, the governing terms and conditions are contained in the 2015 Equity
Plan and the related stock option agreement.  You should consult an employment attorney
and/or a tax advisor if you have any questions about navigating your stock options and
before you make important decisions.


## Stock Options

At GitLab, we give equity grants in the form of Incentive Stock Options (ISOs) and
Non-Qualified Stock Options (NSOs).  The difference in these two types of grants are,
generally, as follows:  ISOs are issued to US employees and carry a special form of
tax treatment recognized by the US Internal Revenue Service (IRS).  NSOs are granted
to contractors and non-US employees.  It’s called an option because you have the option
to buy GitLab stock later, subject to vesting terms, at the exercise price provided at
the time of grant.  Solely for the purposes of example, if you are granted stock options
with an exercise price of $1 per share of common stock today, and if GitLab grows later
so its common stock is worth $20 per share, you will still be able to buy the common
stock upon exercise of your option for $1 per share.


The reason we give stock options instead of straight stock is that you do not need to
spend any money to purchase the stock at the date of grant and can decide to purchase
the stock later as your options vest.  In addition, we do not provide straight stock grants
since this may subject you to immediate tax liabilities.  For example, if we granted you
$10,000 worth of GitLab stock today, you would have to pay taxes on the value of the stock
(potentially thousands of dollars) for this tax year.  If we give you options for $10,000
worth of stock, you generally don’t have to pay any taxes until you exercise them (more
on exercising later).  Again, this is a general summary of the tax treatment of your
options and you should consult a tax advisor prior to taking any actions in the future
which could trigger tax liabilities.


##  Vesting

Vesting means that you have to remain employed by, or are otherwise a service provider
to, GitLab for a certain period of time before you can fully own the stock purchased
under your stock option.  Instead of giving you the right to purchase and own all of
the common stock under your stock option on day one, you get to own the stock under
your stock option in increments over time. This process is called vesting and different
companies offer vesting schedules of different lengths.  At GitLab, our standard practice
is to issue options with a four year vesting schedule so you would own a quarter of your
stock after 12 months, half of your stock after two years, and all of it after 4 years.
Vesting happens on a monthly basis (so you vest 1/48 of your options each month), but
many vesting schedules include a cliff.  A cliff is a period at the beginning of the
vesting period where your equity does not vest monthly, but instead vests at the end of
the cliff period.  At most companies, including GitLab, this cliff period is generally
one year.  This means that if you leave your job either voluntarily or involuntarily
before you’ve worked for a whole year, none of your options will be vested.  At the end
of that year, you’ll vest the entire year’s worth (12 months) of equity all at once.
This helps keep the ownership of GitLab stock to folks who have worked at the company
for a meaningful amount of time.


## Dilution

This section deals with dilution which happens to all companies over time.  In general
companies issue  stock from time to time in the future.  For example, if company XYZ needs
to raise money from outside investors, it may need to create new stock to sell to those
investors. The effect of additional stock issuances by company XYZ is that while you
will own the same number of shares as you did before such issuance, there will be more
total shares of outstanding and, as a result, you will own a smaller percent of the
company -- this is called dilution.

Dilution does not necessarily mean reduced value.  For example when a company raises
money the value of stock will stay the because the company’s new valuation will be equal
to the old value of the company + the new capital raised. For example, if company XYZ
is worth $100m and it raises $25m, the company XYZ is now worth $125m. If you owned 5%
of $100m before, you now own 4% of $125m (20% of the company was sold, or, said differently,
diluted you by 20%). The 5% stake was worth $5m before the fundraise and the 4% stake is now worth $5m.

## Exercise Window After Termination

Please note that until the [post IPO lockup period](http://www.investopedia.com/ask/answer/12/ipo-lockup-period.asp) has expired (or we are bought) company stock is not liquid. If your employment ends
for whatever reason you have a 90 day window to exercise your options. During this window you have to come up with
the exercise price and in some cases the tax on the gain in value of your stock options, which could be considerable.
If the company stock is not liquid this money might be hard to come by. The 90 day window is an industry standard but
there are [good arguments against it](https://zachholman.com/posts/fuck-your-90-day-exercise-window/). At GitLab the stock options are intended to commit our team members to get us to 
a successful IPO. We want to motivate and reward our people for reaching that goal. Therefore we will consider exercise
window extensions only on a case by case basis at our discretion. An example of a situation we'll consider is a valued
team member quitting because of personal circumstances. In most cases there will be no extension and you will either have 
to pay for shares and the taxes yourself or lose the options, even when you are fully vested. And of course [an IPO in 2020
is our public ambition](https://about.gitlab.com/strategy/) but neither timing or if it happens at all is guaranteed.

## Exercising Your Options

"Exercising your options" means buying the stock guaranteed by your options. You pay
the exercise price that was set when the options were first granted and you get stock
certificates back.
To give employees an opportunity to benefit from any existing tax incentives that may
be available (including under the US and the Dutch tax laws) we have made the stock
immediately exercisable. This means you can exercise your right to purchase the unvested
shares under your option to start your holding period.  However, the Company retains a
repurchase rights for the unvested shares if your employment or other services ends for
any reason.  An early exercise of unvested stock may have important tax implications and
you should consult your tax advisor before making such decision.

Also, while the company has the right to repurchase the unvested shares upon your
termination of services, the company is not obligated to do so.  Accordingly you could
lose some or all of the investment you made.  Because we are a young company there are
lots of risks so be aware and informed of the risks. Please read this [quora thread about most startups failing](https://www.quora.com/What-is-the-truth-behind-9-out-of-10-startups-fail) and this story of [people paying more in tax for their stock than they get back](http://www.nytimes.com/2015/12/27/technology/when-a-unicorn-start-up-stumbles-its-employees-get-hurt.html).

## How to Exercise Your Stock Options<a name="how-to-exercise"></a>

Options are approved by the Board of Directors at regularly scheduled quarterly board meetings. After your grant has been approved by the Board you will receive a grant notice by email from eShares containing information relevant to the grant including the number of shares, exercise price, vesting period and other key terms.

There are two methods to exercise your shares:

1. Electronic (US Residents Only)
   - Log into your eShares account
   - Follow directions to enable ACH payments from your bank
   - After ACH has been enabled select exercise option grants and follow the prompts
2. Manual (Non ACH and Non US Residents)
   - Log into your eShares account
   - Click on "View" (right hand side of screen)
   - Click on "Attachments and Notes"
   - Click on "Form of Exercise Agreement"
   - Complete the form, sign and return as PDF to the CFO
   - Send payment in US dollars by wire transfer. You will be provided wire transfer info.

Note for US residents: whichever method you choose, be sure to download the 83-b election form provided by eShares and file with the IRS within 30 days of exercise. Send a copy of the election form to the CFO.

You will most likely want to include the following letter when sending in the 83-b election to the IRS.

>
><<Date Filed>>
>
>Department of the Treasury
>
><<Address provided from eShares 83-b instructions>>
>
>To whom it may concern:
>
>Please find enclosed two copies of the 83-b election in connection with my purchase of shares of GitLab Inc. common stock.  Please return one copy stamped as received to my attention in the enclosed self addressed stamped envelope.
>
>Yours Truly,
>
>//signature




## Option Expiration

If you leave the company, you will generally have 90 days to exercise your option
for any shares that are vested (as of the last day of service).  You may not purchase
unvested shares after your service has ended.  If you fail to exercise your option
within the 90 days after termination of service, your option will terminate and you
will not be able to purchase any shares under such option.  In addition, if not otherwise
expired through termination of your employment, your stock options expire 10 years after
they were issued.

## Exercise Prices and 409A Valuations
Generally, the exercise price for options granted under the 2015 Equity Plan will be
at the fair market value of such common stock at the date of grant.  In short, “fair
market value” is the price that a reasonable person could be expected to pay for the
common stock, but because GitLab is not “public” (listed on a large stock exchange),
the Board is responsible for determining the fair market value.  In order to assist
the Board, the company retains outside advisors to undertake something called a “409A
valuation”.  In general, the lower a valuation for the shares
the better for employees as there is more opportunity for gain.  Additionally, a lower
exercise price reduces the cash required to exercise the shares and establish a holding
period which can have tax advantages in some countries.  We describe those here
but as always check with your financial or tax advisor before taking any action.


## Taxes

Tax law is complex and you should consult a tax attorney or other tax advisor who is
familiar with startup stock options before making any decisions.

For US employees with Incentive Stock Options (ISOs), you aren’t taxed when you exercise
your options.  Tax will be due on the gain or profit you make when you sell the stock
(difference between the exercise price and the sale price).  Depending on your holding period,
the tax may be treated as ordinary income or capital gain.  Please note, however, that any
gain upon exercise of an ISO (difference between the exercise price and fair market value
at date of exercise), even if you do not sell the shares, may be counted as a "tax preference"
towards the Alternative Minimum Tax limit.  You should contact a tax advisor to see if
this would apply to you.

In addition to the benefits of a longer holding period the IRS does have an additional benefit for holders of Qualified Small Business Stock (QSBS for short).  Currently, GitLab meets the criteria for QSBS treatment however, again the Company is not in a position to offer tax or legal advice so check with your own tax and financial advisors.  We found [this article](https://blog.wealthfront.com/qualified-small-business-stock-2016/) helpful in describing the QSBS program in greater detail.


Generally, for Non-qualified Stock Options (NSOs), you are taxed on any gain upon exercise
of a NSO (difference between the exercise price and fair market value at date of exercise).
NSOs are treated much less favorably under tax law because they can be given to people who
don’t work at GitLab. This complicates the tax law and is beyond the current scope of this
document.

For our employees based in the Netherlands, the Dutch taxing authority has a similar concept in that only the difference between the exercise price and the fair market value is considered taxable. So if you exercise early there is no difference between the two and therefore no taxable gain. With respect to tax reporting, you report the difference between fair market value at exercise and the exercise price. So if there is no difference between the two, nothing needs to be reported. Once you have exercised options, then you will need to speak with your tax advisor about how to report them for the purposes of Dutch wealth tax. Again the Company is not in a position to offer tax or legal advice around early exercising or tax reporting, so check with your own tax and financial advisors.

Anyone is always welcome to ask our CFO any questions they have about their options,
 GitLab’s fundraising, or anything else related to equity at GitLab. However, everyone should
 also consult a lawyer before making important financial decisions, especially regarding
 their equity because there are complex legal and tax requirements that may apply.


## References

Our team member Drew Blessing [wrote about what he learned about stock options](http://blessing.io/startups/stock-options/2016/02/15/navigating-your-stock-options.html) after starting to research them because he received them when joining us. His article is greatly appreciated but GitLab Inc. does not endorse it, any advise is his.
