---
release_number: "8.16"
title: "Released with Time Tracking Beta and Chat Commands"
categories:
author: Emily von Hoffmann
author_twitter: TWITTER_USERNAME
image_title: /images/8_15/new-zealand-lake-mountain-landscape-37650.jpeg
extra_css:
  - release-posts-v1.css
---

{::options parse_block_html="true" /}

<div class="left">

You’re doing code review of a new feature and wonder how it’ll actually feel, look and work when it’s live. Yesterday, you had to sacrifice your local development environment’s state, checkout the remote branch, run migrations, and then spin up the entire development environment. Today, you can just go to GitLab and click the link in the merge request to play with a fully functional, live environment.

Maybe you have some feedback on what you saw and start talking with your colleague on chat. Rather than having to communicate on who moves the result to issues, you just create an issue directly from chat. You can immediately add a time estimate to the issue and anyone peeking at the cycle analytics will see the new issue come by and over time, move to production, giving you feedback on where things might get stuck.

You can do all of the above and much more with GitLab 8.14, today. Time tracking, Review Apps, Chat commands, Cycle Analytics improvements and much more.

This month’s Most Valuable Person (MVP) is Toon Claes. Toon contributed the button to delete all merged branches, a great addition to GitLab. Thanks Toon Claes!

</div>

<div class="right">

<figure class="video_container">
  <iframe src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/enMumwvLAug" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen="true"> </iframe>
</figure>

Tune in on Nov. 30 for our 8.14 release webcast with a live demo of Review Apps and Time Tracking for EE!
{: .figcaption}

</div>

This month's Most Valuable Person ([MVP](https://about.gitlab.com/mvp/)) is ***MVP_USER*** ***CONTRIBUTION_OF_MVP_USER***.
Thanks ***MVP_USER_FIRST_NAME***!
{: .mvp}

<!--more-->

## Time Tracking Beta
{: .ee}

> [Documentation link](link)

## Chat Commands Alpha
{: .ce-ee}

> [Documentation link](link)

## Review Apps
{: .ce-ee}

> [Documentation link](link)

## Cycle Analytics Events
{: .ee}

> [Documentation link](link)

## Other changes

This release has more improvements, including security fixes. Please check out
[the changelog] to see all the named changes.

[the changelog]: https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-ce/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md

## Upgrade barometer


*** DESCRIBE HOW INVOLVED THE MIGRATIONS ARE. CAN USERS EXPECT MUCH DOWNTIME? ***
*** CHECK IF THERE ARE ANY MIGRATIONS THAT REMOVE OR CHANGE COLUMNS. ***
*** IF THERE ARE ONLY ADDITIONS OR NO MIGRATIONS CONFIRM THAT DEPLOY CAN BE WITHOUT DOWNTIME ****


### Note

We assume you are upgrading from the latest version. If not, then also consult the upgrade barometers of any intermediate versions you are skipping.
If you are upgrading from a GitLab version prior to 8.0 *and* you have CI enabled, you have to upgrade to GitLab 8.0 [first](https://about.gitlab.com/2015/09/22/gitlab-8-0-released/).

Please be aware that by default the Omnibus packages will stop, run migrations,
and start again, no matter how “big” or “small” the upgrade is. This behavior
can be changed by adding a [`/etc/gitlab/skip-auto-migrations`
file](http://doc.gitlab.com/omnibus/update/README.html).

----

## Installation

If you are setting up a new GitLab installation please see the
[download GitLab page](https://about.gitlab.com/installation/).

## Updating

Check out our [update page](https://about.gitlab.com/update/).

## Enterprise Edition

The mentioned EE only features and things like LDAP group support can be found in GitLab Enterprise Edition.
For a complete overview please have a look at the [feature list of GitLab EE]( https://about.gitlab.com/features/#enterprise).

Access to GitLab Enterprise Edition is included with a
[subscription]( https://about.gitlab.com/pricing/).
No time to upgrade GitLab yourself?
A subscription also entitles you to our upgrade and installation services.

{::options parse_block_html="false" /}

----
