source/posts/2016-11-22-android-builds-gitlab-ci.html.md, before:

---
title: "Setting Up GitLab CI for Android Projects"
author: Greyson Parrelli
author_twitter: greyson_p
categories: GitLab CI
image_title: '/images/blogimages/setting-up-gitlab-ci-for-android-projects/sample-app-screenshot.png'
description: "Learn how to setup GitLab CI for your Android projects."
---

Have you ever accidentally checked in a typo that broke your Android build or unknowingly broke an important use case with a new change? Continuous Integration is a way to avoid these headaches, allowing you to confirm that changes to your app compile and pass your tests before they're merged in.

[GitLab CI](https://about.gitlab.com/gitlab-ci/) is a wonderful [Continuous Integration](https://about.gitlab.com/2016/08/05/continuous-integration-delivery-and-deployment-with-gitlab/) built-in solution, and in this post we'll walk through how to setup a basic config file (```.gitlab-ci.yml```) to ensure your Android app compiles and passes unit and functional tests. We assume that you know the process of creating an Android app, can write and run tests locally, and you are familiar with the basics of the GitLab UI.

<!-- more -->

## Our Sample Project

Here's the [sample project](https://gitlab.com/greysonp/gitlab-ci-android) we'll be working with today. It's very simple. The app allows you to input two numbers, and then click "Calculate" to view the sum in a separate Activity. This is of course a very silly way to structure an app, but it allows us to write some clear examples of different kinds of tests.

![Sample app screenshot](/images/blogimages/setting-up-gitlab-ci-for-android-projects/sample-app-screenshot.png)

### Unit Tests
Your existing unit tests should run fine on GitLab CI without adjustment. You can see the sample app's unit tests [here](https://gitlab.com/greysonp/gitlab-ci-android/tree/master/app/src/test/java/com/greysonparrelli/gitlabciandroid). They don't use [Robolectric](http://robolectric.org/), but nothing is stopping you from doing so.

### Functional/Emulator Tests
Functional tests run on an emulator and therefore have a tendency to be finnicky. Because they run on an actual device, any number of things could happen to screw up the test. One of those things is that the screen could lock. As a result, the sample project includes a base class for tests that ensures that screen locking won't be an issue. Before each tests, the following is run:

```java
@Before
public void setup() {
    // Unlock the screen if it's locked
    UiDevice device = UiDevice.getInstance(InstrumentationRegistry.getInstrumentation());
    try {
        device.wakeUp();
    } catch (RemoteException e) {
        e.printStackTrace();
    }

    // Set the flags on our activity so it'll appear regardless of lock screen state
    final Activity activity = getActivityRule().getActivity();
    Runnable wakeUpDevice = new Runnable() {
        public void run() {
            activity.getWindow().addFlags(WindowManager.LayoutParams.FLAG_TURN_SCREEN_ON |
                    WindowManager.LayoutParams.FLAG_SHOW_WHEN_LOCKED |
                    WindowManager.LayoutParams.FLAG_KEEP_SCREEN_ON);
        }
    };
    activity.runOnUiThread(wakeUpDevice);
}
```

This will help make sure our tests run smoothly.

Now that we've got the project setup, let's look at how we integrate GitLab CI.

## Setting Up Our CI Config
We want to be able to configure our project such that our app is built and has both the unit and functional tests run upon checkin. To do so, we have to create our GitLab CI config file, which is named ```.gitlab-ci.yml``` and is located in the root of our project.

So, first things first: If you're just here for the copy-pasta, here is a ```.gitlab-ci.yml``` that will build and test your app upon checkin:

```yml
image: openjdk:8-jdk

variables:
  ANDROID_COMPILE_SDK: "25"
  ANDROID_BUILD_TOOLS: "24.0.0"
  ANDROID_SDK_TOOLS: "24.4.1"

before_script:
  - apt-get --quiet update --yes
  - apt-get --quiet install --yes wget tar unzip lib32stdc++6 lib32z1
  - wget --quiet --output-document=android-sdk.tgz https://dl.google.com/android/android-sdk_r${ANDROID_SDK_TOOLS}-linux.tgz
  - tar --extract --gzip --file=android-sdk.tgz
  - echo y | android-sdk-linux/tools/android --silent update sdk --no-ui --all --filter android-${ANDROID_COMPILE_SDK}
  - echo y | android-sdk-linux/tools/android --silent update sdk --no-ui --all --filter platform-tools
  - echo y | android-sdk-linux/tools/android --silent update sdk --no-ui --all --filter build-tools-${ANDROID_BUILD_TOOLS}
  - echo y | android-sdk-linux/tools/android --silent update sdk --no-ui --all --filter extra-android-m2repository
  - echo y | android-sdk-linux/tools/android --silent update sdk --no-ui --all --filter extra-google-google_play_services
  - echo y | android-sdk-linux/tools/android --silent update sdk --no-ui --all --filter extra-google-m2repository
  - export ANDROID_HOME=$PWD/android-sdk-linux
  - export PATH=$PATH:$PWD/android-sdk-linux/platform-tools/
  - chmod +x ./gradlew

stages:
  - build
  - test

build:
  stage: build
  script:
    - ./gradlew assembleDebug
  artifacts:
    paths:
    - app/build/outputs/

unitTests:
  stage: test
  script:
    - ./gradlew test

functionalTests:
  stage: test
  script:
    - wget --quiet --output-document=android-wait-for-emulator https://raw.githubusercontent.com/travis-ci/travis-cookbooks/0f497eb71291b52a703143c5cd63a217c8766dc9/community-cookbooks/android-sdk/files/default/android-wait-for-emulator
    - chmod +x android-wait-for-emulator
    - echo y | android-sdk-linux/tools/android --silent update sdk --no-ui --all --filter sys-img-x86-google_apis-${ANDROID_COMPILE_SDK}
    - echo no | android-sdk-linux/tools/android create avd -n test -t android-${ANDROID_COMPILE_SDK} --abi google_apis/x86
    - android-sdk-linux/tools/emulator64-x86 -avd test -no-window -no-audio &
    - ./android-wait-for-emulator
    - adb shell input keyevent 82
    - ./gradlew cAT
```
[Sample Project's .gitlab-ci.yml](https://gitlab.com/greysonp/gitlab-ci-android/blob/master/.gitlab-ci.yml)

Well, that's a lot of text! Let's break it down.

```yml
image: openjdk:8-jdk
```

This tells our runner (the thing that is executing our build) what Docker image to use. If you're not familiar with Docker, the TL;DR is that Docker provides a way to create a completely isolated version of an operating system running in it’s own “container”. Anything running inside the container thinks it has the whole machine to itself, but in reality there can be many containers running on a single machine. Unlike full virtual machines, Docker containers are super fast to create and destroy, making them great choices for setting up temporary environments for building and testing.

This Docker image just has a basic installation of Java that we build upon further down in our config.

```yml
variables:
  ANDROID_COMPILE_SDK: "25"
  ANDROID_BUILD_TOOLS: "24.0.0"
  ANDROID_SDK_TOOLS: "24.4.1"
```

These are variables we'll use throughout our script. They're named to match the properties you specify in your app's ```build.gradle```.

*   ```ANDROID_COMPILE_SDK``` is the version of Android you're compiling with. It should match ```compileSdkVersion```.
*   ```ANDROID_BUILD_TOOLS``` is the version  of the Android build tools you are using. It should match ```buildToolsVersion```.
*   ```ANDROID_SDK_TOOLS``` is a little funny. It's what version of the command line tools we're going to download from the [official site](https://developer.android.com/studio/index.html). So, that number really just comes from the latest version available there.

```yml
before_script:
  - apt-get --quiet update --yes
  - apt-get --quiet install --yes wget tar unzip lib32stdc++6 lib32z1
  - wget --quiet --output-document=android-sdk.tgz https://dl.google.com/android/android-sdk_r${ANDROID_SDK_TOOLS}-linux.tgz
  - tar --extract --gzip --file=android-sdk.tgz
  - echo y | android-sdk-linux/tools/android --silent update sdk --no-ui --all --filter android-${ANDROID_COMPILE_SDK}
  - echo y | android-sdk-linux/tools/android --silent update sdk --no-ui --all --filter platform-tools
  - echo y | android-sdk-linux/tools/android --silent update sdk --no-ui --all --filter build-tools-${ANDROID_BUILD_TOOLS}
  - echo y | android-sdk-linux/tools/android --silent update sdk --no-ui --all --filter extra-android-m2repository
  - echo y | android-sdk-linux/tools/android --silent update sdk --no-ui --all --filter extra-google-google_play_services
  - echo y | android-sdk-linux/tools/android --silent update sdk --no-ui --all --filter extra-google-m2repository
  - export ANDROID_HOME=$PWD/android-sdk-linux
  - export PATH=$PATH:$PWD/android-sdk-linux/platform-tools/
  - chmod +x ./gradlew
```

These are all of the commands that will be run before each job in our config. The gist of this is that we're installing some necessary packages to allow our 64-bit machines to run Android's 32-bit tools, then simply downloading the Android command line tools and installing all of the relevant packages of the SDK.

```yml
stages:
  - build
  - test
```

Here we're defining the different stages of our build. We can call these anything we want. A stage can be thought of as a grouping of jobs. All of the jobs in the same stage happen in parallel, and all jobs in one stage must be completed before the jobs in the next stage begin. We've defined two stages: build and test. They do exactly what you think: the build stage ensures the app compiles, and the test stage runs our unit and functional tests.

```yml
build:
  stage: build
  script:
    - ./gradlew assembleDebug
  artifacts:
    paths:
    - app/build/outputs/
```

This defines our first job, called 'build.' It's the only job in the 'build' stage. It just builds the debug version of the app and makes the outputs of the build available for download via the artifacts field.

```yml
unitTests:
  stage: test
  script:
    - ./gradlew test
```

This defines a job called 'unitTests' that runs during the 'test' stage. Nothing crazy here - we just run the unit tests.

```yml
functionalTests:
  stage: test
  script:
    - wget --quiet --output-document=android-wait-for-emulator https://raw.githubusercontent.com/travis-ci/travis-cookbooks/0f497eb71291b52a703143c5cd63a217c8766dc9/community-cookbooks/android-sdk/files/default/android-wait-for-emulator
    - chmod +x android-wait-for-emulator
    - echo y | android-sdk-linux/tools/android --silent update sdk --no-ui --all --filter sys-img-x86-google_apis-${ANDROID_COMPILE_SDK}
    - echo no | android-sdk-linux/tools/android create avd -n test -t android-${ANDROID_COMPILE_SDK} --abi google_apis/x86
    - android-sdk-linux/tools/emulator64-x86 -avd test -no-window -no-audio &
    - ./android-wait-for-emulator
    - adb shell input keyevent 82
    - ./gradlew cAT
  artifacts:
    paths:
    - app/build/reports/androidTests/
```

This defines a job called 'functionalTests' that runs during the 'tests' stage. Functional tests are a little tricky to setup. First, we download a script made by the folks at Travis CI that will allow us to detect when an emulator has finished booting. Then, we download the emulator system image we're going to use and create an instance of it. Afterwards, we start the emulator, wait for it to finish booting using our downloaded script, input the adb keyevent to unlock the screen, and run our tests. After the tests are run, the generated test report is made available for download via the artifacts field.

## Run Your new CI Setup
After you've added your new ```.gitlab-ci.yml``` file to the root of your directory, just push your changes and off you go! You can see your running builds in the 'Pipelines' tab of your project.

![Pipelines tab screenshot](/images/blogimages/setting-up-gitlab-ci-for-android-projects/artifacts-tutorial-01.png)

After your build is done, you can retrieve your build artifacts by clicking on your completed build...

![Build details button screenshot](/images/blogimages/setting-up-gitlab-ci-for-android-projects/artifacts-tutorial-02.png)

Navigating to the 'Builds' tab...

![Builds tab screenshot](/images/blogimages/setting-up-gitlab-ci-for-android-projects/artifacts-tutorial-03.png)

And clicking the download button for your desired job.

![Download button screenshot](/images/blogimages/setting-up-gitlab-ci-for-android-projects/artifacts-tutorial-04.png)

## Conclusion

So there you have it! You now know how to create a GitLab CI config that will ensure your app:

*   Compiles
*   Passes unit tests
*   Passes functional tests

And allows you to access your build artifacts (like your APK) afterwards.

Enjoy your newfound app stability :)

Questions? Feedback? Please leave a comment or tweet at us [@GitLab]()! 🙌

<!-- closes https://gitlab.com/gitlab-com/blog-posts/issues/28 -->

<style>
  .special-h3 {
    font-size: 18px !important;
    color: #444 !important;
    font-weight: 600 !important;
  }

  img {
    display: block;
    margin: 0 auto 20px auto;
  }
</style>

Commit message:

Explained unit and functional tests more thoroughly.

source/posts/2016-11-22-android-builds-gitlab-ci.html.md, after:

---
title: "Setting Up GitLab CI for Android Projects"
author: Greyson Parrelli
author_twitter: greyson_p
categories: GitLab CI
image_title: '/images/blogimages/setting-up-gitlab-ci-for-android-projects/sample-app-screenshot.png'
description: "Learn how to setup GitLab CI for your Android projects."
---

Have you ever accidentally checked in a typo that broke your Android build or unknowingly broke an important use case with a new change? Continuous Integration is a way to avoid these headaches, allowing you to confirm that changes to your app compile and pass your tests before they're merged in.

[GitLab CI](https://about.gitlab.com/gitlab-ci/) is a wonderful [Continuous Integration](https://about.gitlab.com/2016/08/05/continuous-integration-delivery-and-deployment-with-gitlab/) built-in solution, and in this post we'll walk through how to setup a basic config file (```.gitlab-ci.yml```) to ensure your Android app compiles and passes unit and functional tests. We assume that you know the process of creating an Android app, can write and run tests locally, and are familiar with the basics of the GitLab UI.

<!-- more -->

## Our Sample Project

Here's the [sample project](https://gitlab.com/greysonp/gitlab-ci-android) we'll be working with today. It's very simple. The app allows you to input two numbers, and then click "Calculate" to view the sum in a separate Activity. This is of course a very silly way to structure an app, but it allows us to write some clear examples of different kinds of tests.

![Sample app screenshot](/images/blogimages/setting-up-gitlab-ci-for-android-projects/sample-app-screenshot.png)

### Unit Tests

Unit tests are a fantastic way to catch regressions when making changes to your app. They run directly on the JVM, so you don't need an actual Android device to run them. As a result, they run quite quickly and are generally preferred over other types of tests when possible. For more information on unit tests, you can consult the [official documentation](https://developer.android.com/training/testing/unit-testing/index.html).

If you already have working unit tests, you shouldn't have to make any adjustments to have them work with GitLab CI. You can see the sample app's unit tests [here](https://gitlab.com/greysonp/gitlab-ci-android/tree/master/app/src/test/java/com/greysonparrelli/gitlabciandroid). The sample doesn't use [Robolectric](http://robolectric.org/), but nothing stops you from doing so.

### Functional Tests

Functional tests, sometimes called UI tests or emulator tests, are great for those times when unit tests aren't practical. They are often used when you want to test a distinct user path that would be difficult to unit test. In our [sample app](https://gitlab.com/greysonp/gitlab-ci-android/tree/master/app/src/androidTest/java/com/greysonparrelli/gitlabciandroid), we test the path of a user inputting numbers, pressing "Calculate," and seeing the result in the next Activity. Functional tests run on an actual Android device or emulator and can therefore be slow to execute, meaning that are typically only used when other testing methods aren't sufficient. For more information on functional tests, you can consult the [official documentation](https://developer.android.com/training/testing/ui-testing/index.html).

Because functional tests run on an actual Android device or emulator, they tend to be finnicky. Any number of things could happen to screw up the test, including the screen locking. To help prevent this, the sample project includes a [base class](https://gitlab.com/greysonp/gitlab-ci-android/blob/master/app/src/androidTest/java/com/greysonparrelli/gitlabciandroid/TestBase.java) for tests to ensure the screen is unlocked when the tests are run. The base class contains this ```@Before```-annotated method, ensuring that it is run before each of your tests:

```java
@Before
public void setup() {
    // Unlock the screen if it's locked
    UiDevice device = UiDevice.getInstance(InstrumentationRegistry.getInstrumentation());
    try {
        device.wakeUp();
    } catch (RemoteException e) {
        e.printStackTrace();
    }

    // Set the flags on our activity so it'll appear regardless of lock screen state
    final Activity activity = getActivityRule().getActivity();
    Runnable wakeUpDevice = new Runnable() {
        public void run() {
            activity.getWindow().addFlags(WindowManager.LayoutParams.FLAG_TURN_SCREEN_ON |
                    WindowManager.LayoutParams.FLAG_SHOW_WHEN_LOCKED |
                    WindowManager.LayoutParams.FLAG_KEEP_SCREEN_ON);
        }
    };
    activity.runOnUiThread(wakeUpDevice);
}
```

Now that we've got the project setup, let's look at how we integrate GitLab CI.

## Setting Up Our CI Config

We want to be able to configure our project such that our app is built and has both the unit and functional tests run upon checkin. To do so, we have to create our GitLab CI config file, which is named ```.gitlab-ci.yml``` and is located in the root of our project.

So, first things first: If you're just here for the copy-pasta, here is a ```.gitlab-ci.yml``` that will build and test your app upon checkin:

```yml
image: openjdk:8-jdk

variables:
  ANDROID_COMPILE_SDK: "25"
  ANDROID_BUILD_TOOLS: "24.0.0"
  ANDROID_SDK_TOOLS: "24.4.1"

before_script:
  - apt-get --quiet update --yes
  - apt-get --quiet install --yes wget tar unzip lib32stdc++6 lib32z1
  - wget --quiet --output-document=android-sdk.tgz https://dl.google.com/android/android-sdk_r${ANDROID_SDK_TOOLS}-linux.tgz
  - tar --extract --gzip --file=android-sdk.tgz
  - echo y | android-sdk-linux/tools/android --silent update sdk --no-ui --all --filter android-${ANDROID_COMPILE_SDK}
  - echo y | android-sdk-linux/tools/android --silent update sdk --no-ui --all --filter platform-tools
  - echo y | android-sdk-linux/tools/android --silent update sdk --no-ui --all --filter build-tools-${ANDROID_BUILD_TOOLS}
  - echo y | android-sdk-linux/tools/android --silent update sdk --no-ui --all --filter extra-android-m2repository
  - echo y | android-sdk-linux/tools/android --silent update sdk --no-ui --all --filter extra-google-google_play_services
  - echo y | android-sdk-linux/tools/android --silent update sdk --no-ui --all --filter extra-google-m2repository
  - export ANDROID_HOME=$PWD/android-sdk-linux
  - export PATH=$PATH:$PWD/android-sdk-linux/platform-tools/
  - chmod +x ./gradlew

stages:
  - build
  - test

build:
  stage: build
  script:
    - ./gradlew assembleDebug
  artifacts:
    paths:
    - app/build/outputs/

unitTests:
  stage: test
  script:
    - ./gradlew test

functionalTests:
  stage: test
  script:
    - wget --quiet --output-document=android-wait-for-emulator https://raw.githubusercontent.com/travis-ci/travis-cookbooks/0f497eb71291b52a703143c5cd63a217c8766dc9/community-cookbooks/android-sdk/files/default/android-wait-for-emulator
    - chmod +x android-wait-for-emulator
    - echo y | android-sdk-linux/tools/android --silent update sdk --no-ui --all --filter sys-img-x86-google_apis-${ANDROID_COMPILE_SDK}
    - echo no | android-sdk-linux/tools/android create avd -n test -t android-${ANDROID_COMPILE_SDK} --abi google_apis/x86
    - android-sdk-linux/tools/emulator64-x86 -avd test -no-window -no-audio &
    - ./android-wait-for-emulator
    - adb shell input keyevent 82
    - ./gradlew cAT
```
[Sample Project's .gitlab-ci.yml](https://gitlab.com/greysonp/gitlab-ci-android/blob/master/.gitlab-ci.yml)

Well, that's a lot of text! Let's break it down.

```yml
image: openjdk:8-jdk
```

This tells our runner (the thing that is executing our build) what Docker image to use. If you're not familiar with Docker, the TL;DR is that Docker provides a way to create a completely isolated version of an operating system running in it’s own “container”. Anything running inside the container thinks it has the whole machine to itself, but in reality there can be many containers running on a single machine. Unlike full virtual machines, Docker containers are super fast to create and destroy, making them great choices for setting up temporary environments for building and testing.

This Docker image just has a basic installation of Java that we build upon further down in our config.

```yml
variables:
  ANDROID_COMPILE_SDK: "25"
  ANDROID_BUILD_TOOLS: "24.0.0"
  ANDROID_SDK_TOOLS: "24.4.1"
```

These are variables we'll use throughout our script. They're named to match the properties you specify in your app's ```build.gradle```.

*   ```ANDROID_COMPILE_SDK``` is the version of Android you're compiling with. It should match ```compileSdkVersion```.
*   ```ANDROID_BUILD_TOOLS``` is the version  of the Android build tools you are using. It should match ```buildToolsVersion```.
*   ```ANDROID_SDK_TOOLS``` is a little funny. It's what version of the command line tools we're going to download from the [official site](https://developer.android.com/studio/index.html). So, that number really just comes from the latest version available there.

```yml
before_script:
  - apt-get --quiet update --yes
  - apt-get --quiet install --yes wget tar unzip lib32stdc++6 lib32z1
  - wget --quiet --output-document=android-sdk.tgz https://dl.google.com/android/android-sdk_r${ANDROID_SDK_TOOLS}-linux.tgz
  - tar --extract --gzip --file=android-sdk.tgz
  - echo y | android-sdk-linux/tools/android --silent update sdk --no-ui --all --filter android-${ANDROID_COMPILE_SDK}
  - echo y | android-sdk-linux/tools/android --silent update sdk --no-ui --all --filter platform-tools
  - echo y | android-sdk-linux/tools/android --silent update sdk --no-ui --all --filter build-tools-${ANDROID_BUILD_TOOLS}
  - echo y | android-sdk-linux/tools/android --silent update sdk --no-ui --all --filter extra-android-m2repository
  - echo y | android-sdk-linux/tools/android --silent update sdk --no-ui --all --filter extra-google-google_play_services
  - echo y | android-sdk-linux/tools/android --silent update sdk --no-ui --all --filter extra-google-m2repository
  - export ANDROID_HOME=$PWD/android-sdk-linux
  - export PATH=$PATH:$PWD/android-sdk-linux/platform-tools/
  - chmod +x ./gradlew
```

These are all of the commands that will be run before each job in our config. The gist of this is that we're installing some necessary packages to allow our 64-bit machines to run Android's 32-bit tools, then simply downloading the Android command line tools and installing all of the relevant packages of the SDK.

```yml
stages:
  - build
  - test
```

Here we're defining the different stages of our build. We can call these anything we want. A stage can be thought of as a grouping of jobs. All of the jobs in the same stage happen in parallel, and all jobs in one stage must be completed before the jobs in the next stage begin. We've defined two stages: build and test. They do exactly what you think: the build stage ensures the app compiles, and the test stage runs our unit and functional tests.

```yml
build:
  stage: build
  script:
    - ./gradlew assembleDebug
  artifacts:
    paths:
    - app/build/outputs/
```

This defines our first job, called 'build.' It's the only job in the 'build' stage. It just builds the debug version of the app and makes the outputs of the build available for download via the artifacts field.

```yml
unitTests:
  stage: test
  script:
    - ./gradlew test
```

This defines a job called 'unitTests' that runs during the 'test' stage. Nothing crazy here - we just run the unit tests.

```yml
functionalTests:
  stage: test
  script:
    - wget --quiet --output-document=android-wait-for-emulator https://raw.githubusercontent.com/travis-ci/travis-cookbooks/0f497eb71291b52a703143c5cd63a217c8766dc9/community-cookbooks/android-sdk/files/default/android-wait-for-emulator
    - chmod +x android-wait-for-emulator
    - echo y | android-sdk-linux/tools/android --silent update sdk --no-ui --all --filter sys-img-x86-google_apis-${ANDROID_COMPILE_SDK}
    - echo no | android-sdk-linux/tools/android create avd -n test -t android-${ANDROID_COMPILE_SDK} --abi google_apis/x86
    - android-sdk-linux/tools/emulator64-x86 -avd test -no-window -no-audio &
    - ./android-wait-for-emulator
    - adb shell input keyevent 82
    - ./gradlew cAT
  artifacts:
    paths:
    - app/build/reports/androidTests/
```

This defines a job called 'functionalTests' that runs during the 'tests' stage. Functional tests are a little tricky to setup. First, we download a script made by the folks at Travis CI that will allow us to detect when an emulator has finished booting. Then, we download the emulator system image we're going to use and create an instance of it. Afterwards, we start the emulator, wait for it to finish booting using our downloaded script, input the adb keyevent to unlock the screen, and run our tests. After the tests are run, the generated test report is made available for download via the artifacts field.

## Run Your new CI Setup

After you've added your new ```.gitlab-ci.yml``` file to the root of your directory, just push your changes and off you go! You can see your running builds in the 'Pipelines' tab of your project.

![Pipelines tab screenshot](/images/blogimages/setting-up-gitlab-ci-for-android-projects/artifacts-tutorial-01.png)

After your build is done, you can retrieve your build artifacts by clicking on your completed build...

![Build details button screenshot](/images/blogimages/setting-up-gitlab-ci-for-android-projects/artifacts-tutorial-02.png)

Navigating to the 'Builds' tab...

![Builds tab screenshot](/images/blogimages/setting-up-gitlab-ci-for-android-projects/artifacts-tutorial-03.png)

And clicking the download button for your desired job.

![Download button screenshot](/images/blogimages/setting-up-gitlab-ci-for-android-projects/artifacts-tutorial-04.png)

## Conclusion

So there you have it! You now know how to create a GitLab CI config that will ensure your app:

*   Compiles
*   Passes unit tests
*   Passes functional tests

And allows you to access your build artifacts (like your APK) afterwards.

Enjoy your newfound app stability :)

Questions? Feedback? Please leave a comment or tweet at us [@GitLab]()! 🙌

<!-- closes https://gitlab.com/gitlab-com/blog-posts/issues/28 -->

<style>
  .special-h3 {
    font-size: 18px !important;
    color: #444 !important;
    font-weight: 600 !important;
  }

  img {
    display: block;
    margin: 0 auto 20px auto;
  }
</style>
