---
layout: post
title: 1.5M raised in seed funding for GitLab to keep growing
date: 2015-07-08
author: Karen Carias
image_title: '/images/unsplash/gitlab-funded.jpeg'
author_twitter: myvineste
---

Every day, our community grows. We are now the most trusted open-source code collaboration platform and our dream is to accelerate our growth and expand operations to keep building a better product and reach more users.

In our efforts to reach our goal, we are excited to announce that we raised $1.5M seed funding led by Khosla Ventures, 500 Startups, Crunchfund, Sound Ventures (Ashton Kutcher), and Liquid 2 Ventures (Joe Montana).

<!--more-->

## Walking towards our dream

GitLab started as a side project and now we grow effortlessly.
We currently have over 800 contributors and more than 100K companies and organizations use GitLab on-premises including NASA, CERN, Alibaba, SpaceX, O’Reilly, IBM and Expedia.

We will leverage the new funding to accelerate growth and scale our U.S. operations, including the opening of a new office in San Francisco.

“There’s a big market demand for more open-source solutions that allow engineers to create, review, and deploy code enabling their teams to build better products faster,” said Vinod Khosla, founder and partner of Khosla Ventures.
“We invested in GitLab because it meets this demand by allowing engineers to more easily review each other’s work, collaborate, and merge good input, thereby accelerating the iterative process behind creating products.”

“The GitLab team is thrilled to have such an experienced and respected group of investors.
We started GitLab with a dream to become the default solution for developers to create better products together, faster.
Enterprise technology is being replaced by open-source technology, and this seed round of funding will help us accelerate our growth and build our sales and marketing team in San Francisco to work more closely with current and new clients,” said Sytse “Sid” Sijbrandij, CEO and co-founder of GitLab.

## Thank you for believing in us

We are and will always be thankful to our team and our amazing community.
As an open-source platform, we exist thanks to all the people that believe in us.

Today, after we were part of the Y Combinator Winter 2015 program, GitLab is a privately held company backed by Khosla Ventures, 500 Startups, Crunchfund, Sound Ventures, Liquid 2 Ventures, FundersClub, Y Combinator, and other angel investors.
