source/handbook/infrastructure/index.html.md, before:

---
layout: markdown_page
title: "Infrastructure"
---

## Communication<a name="reach-infra"></a>

- [**Public Issue Tracker**](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-com/infrastructure/issues/); please use confidential issues for topics that should only be visible to team members at GitLab. Still alive, but in the course of being deprecated, there is the public [Operations issue tracker](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-com/operations/issues) as well.
- [**Chat channel**](https://gitlab.slack.com/archives/infrastructure); please use the `#infrastructure` chat channel for questions that don't seem appropriate to use the issue tracker or the internal email address for.

## Infrastructure roles

The infrastructure team is split between production engineers and performance specialists.

Both roles are closely related as they touch on some of the same spots, for example, both care about the
[availability](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-com/infrastructure/issues?scope=all&sort=updated_desc&state=opened&utf8=%E2%9C%93&label_name%5B%5D=availability&label-name=)
and [performance](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-com/infrastructure/issues?scope=all&sort=updated_desc&state=opened&utf8=%E2%9C%93&label_name%5B%5D=performance&label-name=)
of GitLab.com, from different perspectives.

Both roles also care about building an infrastructure and monitoring that can be shipped to our customers.

### Production Engineers

Production engineers work on keeping the infrastructure that runs our services running fast and reliably.
This infrastructure includes GitLab.com, dev.GitLab.org and GitHost.io.

Production engineers also have a strong focus on enabling development to ship features as fast and bug
free as possible. Providing the monitoring tools that prevent shipping regressions that would affect
our customers. And building automation tools that lower the barrier of access to production and allow us
to scale with automation.

Responsibilities can be found in the [job description](jobs/production-engineer/index.html)

### Production Engineering Resources

- Documentation: refer to runbooks and internal documentation in this very page.
- Chat channels in Slack:
  - Alerts: monitoring tools post into this channel, production engineers should monitor this channel to act on alerts. Remember to let the people know when you are dealing with an alert, or if you have triggered it.
  - Infrastructure: general conversation about infrastructure goes on in this channel. Remember to let the people know when you are about to do some change in the infrastructure.
  - Releases: deployments and general releases conversation goes on here, lurk it to support deployments and help out when things go wrong.
- Operations channel archive:
  - You can find the infrastructure archive [here](https://docs.google.com/document/d/19yzyIHY9F_m5p0B0e6STSZyhzfo-vLIRVQ1zRRevWRM/edit#heading=h.lz1c6r6c9ejd).
-  Automated tasks and schedules
  - Weekly automatic OS updates are performed on Monday at 10:10 UTC.


### Performance Specialists

Performance specialists are developers that have a focus on improving GitLab.com performance.
They work on issues from the
[GitLab-CE](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-ce/issues?scope=all&sort=updated_desc&state=opened&utf8=%E2%9C%93&label_name%5B%5D=performance&label-name=)
project.

For practical reasons we track the work that is on flight in the
[performance issue tracker](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-com/performance/issues) by cross linking,
but we keep the discussion in the source issue.

This is so we can have really quick 1 week sprints that allow us to iterate faster.

Performance specialists can also focus on critical infrastructure tasks that will enable GitLab.com to go faster, to
increase availability, or to just generally make it scale to handle more users with less resources.

We have a [public monitoring server](http://monitor.gitlab.net/dashboard/db/gitlab-status) that shows our most important metrics.

## Documentation

The main infrastructure documentation can be found in 2 places:

### Runbooks

[Runbooks are public](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-com/runbooks), but they are automatically mirrored in our
[development environment](https://dev.gitlab.org/cookbooks/runbooks/), this is so because if GitLab.com is down,
those runbooks would not be available to take it up again.

These runbooks aim to provide simple solutions for common problems, they should be pointed from our alerting
system and should also be kept up to date with whatever new finding we get as we learn how to scale GitLab.com
so these runbooks can also be adopted by our customers.

Runbooks are divided into 2 main sections:

- What to do when: points to specific runbooks to run on stressful situations (on-call)
- How do I: points to general administration texts that explain how to perform different administration tasks.

When writing a new runbook, be mindful what the goal of it is:

- If it is for on-call situations, make it crisp and brief. Try to keep the following structure: pre-check, resolution, post-check .
- If it is for general management, it can be freely formatted.

### Chef cookbooks

Some basic rules:

- Use maintained cookbooks from https://supermarket.chef.io.
- Create a wrapper cookbook whenever a feature is missing.
- Make sure our custom cookbooks are public available from https://gitlab.com/gitlab-cookbooks.
- Make sure there is a copy in our DEV environment https://dev.gitlab.org/cookbooks and setup push mirror to keep it in sync.
- Berkshell should only point to our cookbooks in DEV so we are able to fix our cookbooks whenever GitLab.com comes unavailable.
- Cookbooks should be developed using the team. We use merge requests and code review to share knowledge and build the best product we can.
- Cookbooks should be covered with testing in order to prevent them from becoming legacy.

Generally our [chef cookbooks](https://gitlab.com/groups/gitlab-cookbooks) live in the open, and they get mirrored back to our
[internal cookbooks group](https://dev.gitlab.org/cookbooks) for availability reasons.

There may be cases of cookbooks that could become a security concern, in which case it is ok to keep them in our GitLab
private instance. This should be assessed in a case by case and documented properly.

### Internal documentation

Available in the [Chef Repo](https://dev.gitlab.org/cookbooks/chef-repo).
There is some documentation that is specific to GitLab.com. Things that are specific to our infrastructure
providers or that would create a security treat for our installation.

Still, this documentation is [in the Chef Repo](https://dev.gitlab.org/cookbooks/chef-repo), and we aim to
start pulling things out of there into the runbooks, until this documentation is thin and GitLab.com only.

### GitLab Cloud Images
A detailed process on creating and maintaining GitLab cloud images can be found [here](https://about.gitlab.com/cloud-images/).

## Production events logging

There are 2 kind of production events that we track:

- Changes into the production fleet: for this we record things [in the Chef Repo](https://dev.gitlab.org/cookbooks/chef-repo).
  - Deploys will be recorded automagically because of the way we do deploys.
  - General operations can be recorded by creating an empty commit in the repo and pushing it into origin.
- Outages and general production events
  - Create an issue in the [infrastructure](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-com/infrastructure/issues) tracker with the _outage_ label, or whatever else applies,
  - Try to be as explicit as possible on what the root cause is.
  - If we don't know the root cause, also state it and leave the issue open for followup.
  - Add the outage issue to the infrastructure agenda for sharing the knowledge, or to asking for guidence.

## On Call

See the separate [on-call page](/handbook/on-call/).

# Make GitLab.com settings the default

As said in the [production engineer job description](jobs/production-engineer/index.html)
one of the goals is "Making GitLab easier to maintain to administrators all over the world".
One of the ways we do it is making GitLab.com settings the default for all our customers.
It is very important that GitLab.com is running GitLab Enterprise Edition with all its default settings.
We don't want users running GitLab at scale to run into any problems.

If it is not possible to use the default settings the difference should be documented in
[GitLab.com settings](https://about.gitlab.com/gitlab-com/settings/#gitlab-pages)
_before_ applying them to GitLab.com.

Commit message:

Operations project is no longer active

source/handbook/infrastructure/index.html.md, after:

---
layout: markdown_page
title: "Infrastructure"
---

## Communication<a name="reach-infra"></a>

- [**Public Issue Tracker**](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-com/infrastructure/issues/); please use confidential issues for topics that should only be visible to team members at GitLab. No longer active, but kept for reference, is the legacy public [Operations issue tracker](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-com/operations/issues) as well.
- [**Chat channel**](https://gitlab.slack.com/archives/infrastructure); please use the `#infrastructure` chat channel for questions that don't seem appropriate to use the issue tracker or the internal email address for.

## Infrastructure roles

The infrastructure team is split between production engineers and performance specialists.

Both roles are closely related as they touch on some of the same spots, for example, both care about the
[availability](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-com/infrastructure/issues?scope=all&sort=updated_desc&state=opened&utf8=%E2%9C%93&label_name%5B%5D=availability&label-name=)
and [performance](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-com/infrastructure/issues?scope=all&sort=updated_desc&state=opened&utf8=%E2%9C%93&label_name%5B%5D=performance&label-name=)
of GitLab.com, from different perspectives.

Both roles also care about building an infrastructure and monitoring that can be shipped to our customers.

### Production Engineers

Production engineers work on keeping the infrastructure that runs our services running fast and reliably.
This infrastructure includes GitLab.com, dev.GitLab.org and GitHost.io.

Production engineers also have a strong focus on enabling development to ship features as fast and bug
free as possible. Providing the monitoring tools that prevent shipping regressions that would affect
our customers. And building automation tools that lower the barrier of access to production and allow us
to scale with automation.

Responsibilities can be found in the [job description](jobs/production-engineer/index.html)

### Production Engineering Resources

- Documentation: refer to runbooks and internal documentation in this very page.
- Chat channels in Slack:
  - Alerts: monitoring tools post into this channel, production engineers should monitor this channel to act on alerts. Remember to let the people know when you are dealing with an alert, or if you have triggered it.
  - Infrastructure: general conversation about infrastructure goes on in this channel. Remember to let the people know when you are about to do some change in the infrastructure.
  - Releases: deployments and general releases conversation goes on here, lurk it to support deployments and help out when things go wrong.
- Operations channel archive:
  - You can find the infrastructure archive [here](https://docs.google.com/document/d/19yzyIHY9F_m5p0B0e6STSZyhzfo-vLIRVQ1zRRevWRM/edit#heading=h.lz1c6r6c9ejd).
-  Automated tasks and schedules
  - Weekly automatic OS updates are performed on Monday at 10:10 UTC.


### Performance Specialists

Performance specialists are developers that have a focus on improving GitLab.com performance.
They work on issues from the
[GitLab-CE](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-ce/issues?scope=all&sort=updated_desc&state=opened&utf8=%E2%9C%93&label_name%5B%5D=performance&label-name=)
project.

For practical reasons we track the work that is on flight in the
[performance issue tracker](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-com/performance/issues) by cross linking,
but we keep the discussion in the source issue.

This is so we can have really quick 1 week sprints that allow us to iterate faster.

Performance specialists can also focus on critical infrastructure tasks that will enable GitLab.com to go faster, to
increase availability, or to just generally make it scale to handle more users with less resources.

We have a [public monitoring server](http://monitor.gitlab.net/dashboard/db/gitlab-status) that shows our most important metrics.

## Documentation

The main infrastructure documentation can be found in 2 places:

### Runbooks

[Runbooks are public](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-com/runbooks), but they are automatically mirrored in our
[development environment](https://dev.gitlab.org/cookbooks/runbooks/), this is so because if GitLab.com is down,
those runbooks would not be available to take it up again.

These runbooks aim to provide simple solutions for common problems, they should be pointed from our alerting
system and should also be kept up to date with whatever new finding we get as we learn how to scale GitLab.com
so these runbooks can also be adopted by our customers.

Runbooks are divided into 2 main sections:

- What to do when: points to specific runbooks to run on stressful situations (on-call)
- How do I: points to general administration texts that explain how to perform different administration tasks.

When writing a new runbook, be mindful what the goal of it is:

- If it is for on-call situations, make it crisp and brief. Try to keep the following structure: pre-check, resolution, post-check .
- If it is for general management, it can be freely formatted.

### Chef cookbooks

Some basic rules:

- Use maintained cookbooks from https://supermarket.chef.io.
- Create a wrapper cookbook whenever a feature is missing.
- Make sure our custom cookbooks are public available from https://gitlab.com/gitlab-cookbooks.
- Make sure there is a copy in our DEV environment https://dev.gitlab.org/cookbooks and setup push mirror to keep it in sync.
- Berkshell should only point to our cookbooks in DEV so we are able to fix our cookbooks whenever GitLab.com comes unavailable.
- Cookbooks should be developed using the team. We use merge requests and code review to share knowledge and build the best product we can.
- Cookbooks should be covered with testing in order to prevent them from becoming legacy.

Generally our [chef cookbooks](https://gitlab.com/groups/gitlab-cookbooks) live in the open, and they get mirrored back to our
[internal cookbooks group](https://dev.gitlab.org/cookbooks) for availability reasons.

There may be cases of cookbooks that could become a security concern, in which case it is ok to keep them in our GitLab
private instance. This should be assessed in a case by case and documented properly.

### Internal documentation

Available in the [Chef Repo](https://dev.gitlab.org/cookbooks/chef-repo).
There is some documentation that is specific to GitLab.com. Things that are specific to our infrastructure
providers or that would create a security treat for our installation.

Still, this documentation is [in the Chef Repo](https://dev.gitlab.org/cookbooks/chef-repo), and we aim to
start pulling things out of there into the runbooks, until this documentation is thin and GitLab.com only.

### GitLab Cloud Images
A detailed process on creating and maintaining GitLab cloud images can be found [here](https://about.gitlab.com/cloud-images/).

## Production events logging

There are 2 kind of production events that we track:

- Changes into the production fleet: for this we record things [in the Chef Repo](https://dev.gitlab.org/cookbooks/chef-repo).
  - Deploys will be recorded automagically because of the way we do deploys.
  - General operations can be recorded by creating an empty commit in the repo and pushing it into origin.
- Outages and general production events
  - Create an issue in the [infrastructure](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-com/infrastructure/issues) tracker with the _outage_ label, or whatever else applies,
  - Try to be as explicit as possible on what the root cause is.
  - If we don't know the root cause, also state it and leave the issue open for followup.
  - Add the outage issue to the infrastructure agenda for sharing the knowledge, or to asking for guidence.

## On Call

See the separate [on-call page](/handbook/on-call/).

# Make GitLab.com settings the default

As said in the [production engineer job description](jobs/production-engineer/index.html)
one of the goals is "Making GitLab easier to maintain to administrators all over the world".
One of the ways we do it is making GitLab.com settings the default for all our customers.
It is very important that GitLab.com is running GitLab Enterprise Edition with all its default settings.
We don't want users running GitLab at scale to run into any problems.

If it is not possible to use the default settings the difference should be documented in
[GitLab.com settings](https://about.gitlab.com/gitlab-com/settings/#gitlab-pages)
_before_ applying them to GitLab.com.
