source/handbook/support/knowledge-base/general/customer_calls.html.md, before:

---
layout: markdown_page
title: Customer calls
category: General
---

## On this page
{:.no_toc}

- TOC
{:toc}

----

## Customer calls

### Scheduled calls

We offer intake, upgrade and installation support for our customers. These calls should be scheduled
via the support project [issue tracker](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-com/support/issues) using the [customer call template](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-com/support/blob/master/.gitlab/issue_templates/Customer%20call.md).

Call/screen sharing sessions involve guiding customers through the GitLab upgrade process or taking control of the customers server to perform the upgrade. You should make sure that the customer has a backup before you start the call, as they can take
a lot of time to complete and you don't want to do them while in the call. You should also make sure you know as
much as possible about the customer's instance as you can.

**Important information to collect**

1. Type of installation: Source/Omnibus
1. Current GitLab version
1. Version you're upgrading to (it isn't always the latest)
1. Use of GitLab CI (need to upgrade to 8.0 first, then 8.+)

We collect this information in Zendesk and link it to the organization, see the
[responding to tickets section in onboarding](/handbook/support/onboarding).

### Unscheduled calls

While engaging with customers you should always be prepared to jump on a call with them. It is easier to get
all the information you might need on a 20 minute call than on 10 2-minute emails. If a conversation goes through
several back and forth emails and the problem still isn't close to being resolved, suggest a call via WebEx or
Google Hangouts.

If you feel too inexperienced to handle a call, ask someone more experienced to handle the call and
listen in if at all possible. After someone else had the call with the customer it is still your responsibility
to handle the ticket as long as the ticket is still assigned to you.

Commit message:

clarify that not all customers receive live support

source/handbook/support/knowledge-base/general/customer_calls.html.md, after:

---
layout: markdown_page
title: Customer calls
category: General
---

## On this page
{:.no_toc}

- TOC
{:toc}

----

## Customer calls

### Scheduled calls

For Premium Support customers, and customers who have purchased Implementation Support, we offer intake and installation support. Premium Support customers also receive live upgrade assistance. The different levels of service that are offered are described on the [support page](https://about.gitlab.com/support), and Implementation Support is described in more detail in the [support handbook](/handbook/support/#implementation-support).

These calls should be scheduled
via the support project [issue tracker](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-com/support/issues) using the [customer call template](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-com/support/blob/master/.gitlab/issue_templates/Customer%20call.md).

Call/screen sharing sessions involve guiding customers through the GitLab upgrade process or taking control of the customers server to perform the upgrade. You should make sure that the customer has a backup before you start the call, as they can take
a lot of time to complete and you don't want to do them while in the call. You should also make sure you know as
much as possible about the customer's instance as you can.

**Important information to collect**

1. Type of installation: Source/Omnibus
1. Current GitLab version
1. Version you're upgrading to (it isn't always the latest)
1. Use of GitLab CI (need to upgrade to 8.0 first, then 8.+)

We collect this information in Zendesk and link it to the organization, see the
[responding to tickets section in onboarding](/handbook/support/onboarding).

### Unscheduled calls

While engaging with customers you should always be prepared to jump on a call with them. It is easier to get
all the information you might need on a 20 minute call than on 10 2-minute emails. If a conversation goes through
several back and forth emails and the problem still isn't close to being resolved, suggest a call via WebEx or
Google Hangouts.

If you feel too inexperienced to handle a call, ask someone more experienced to handle the call and
listen in if at all possible. After someone else had the call with the customer it is still your responsibility
to handle the ticket as long as the ticket is still assigned to you.
